Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about a question I get all
the time which is should I worry about competition now any traditional business you would have a product
offering you would need to examine your competition.
You need to be concerned about how saturated your market is and you need to be confident that there
is a market opportunity that isn't going to be swooped up by some other company specifically to development
businesses.
When people ask me should I be worried about competition.
The answer is always unambiguously No.
Why is that.
Well because there are an immense amount of development businesses out there and there's almost an infinite
amount of development work out there that needs to be done that's being developed on a day to day basis.
It is there is a mind boggling amount of development firms and a mind boggling amount of work that's
out there that's constantly being produced and needed.
Now why do clients pick development firms they pick them typically because they can match their expertise.
They have a good reputation they have a good portfolio and they can build a relationship to them.
Now one of the biggest problems the market when it comes to development firms is that highly fragmented
it is virtually impossible for one company to compare another on an apples to apples ratio.
If one company says no this is our proposal this is our time line.
Now how is it possible that the person that client could even know about whether or not there's a better
proposal out there from a better company even on the other side of the world the market in general just
lacks transparency and that's because every single development firm is just different and every single
client.
And what they need is also very very different.
There's always an infinite number of configurations in terms of what you can offer as a devolvement
firm an infinite number of configurations that a client ends up needing at the end of the day clients
care about referrals and they care about their relationship with their contractor.
There is no company out there that can dominate the entire market and steal all of that from everyone.
Because again the number one thing they care about is something that's established on an individual
basis.
We have so many different technologies out there so many different projects being created that there's
almost infinite numbers of opportunities to create a development business and create a offering and
then to go out and find those projects and connect yourself with them.
So no don't worry about competition.
If you had to worry about competition your head would explode.
You couldn't possibly take into consideration every single move every single decision every single change
of every single competitor because no one even knows how many development businesses there are.
There aren't too many.
And honestly if you're not the right fit for a client it's kind of like they say client work in this
situation it's like a boss.
If you missed your first boss there's always another one coming.
So don't forget you can always find the right combination with the right client.
There is an abounding amount of work out there.
It's so much so that it's not even worth really worrying about competition.
Now the only reason why you should even keep an eye on what people you perceive as competitors are people
who are in a similar space is merely because it gives you a great opportunity to emulate what they're
doing.
I could give you ideas for how to improve your service can give you ideas for areas to move into techniques
best practices use those competitors or perceived competitors as a way to improve yourself.
But that's literally it.
Don't fret about it.
Your market potential is built off your ability to find clients keep good relationships and keep really
good business fundamentals.
If you focus on that you're going to grow you're going to find more clients and it's virtually impossible
to ever run into a situation where competitors stealing all your business or a market is too saturated.
It just doesn't happen in the development world.
All right guys see in the next lecture.